Editorial review (#80)
iov-one/docs: docs/weave/design/03-permissions.md

> ---

Reviewer: 'In this section (03-permissions) the writer toggles between I and we. This should be standardised to We.'

Author: Nice catch

    GetSignBytes() ([]byte, error)

    // Signatures returns the signature of signers who signed the Msg.
    GetSignatures() []*StdSignature
}
```

It stores the matching conditions in the context under a secret key, and exposes an `Authenticator` that can be used to read this information.

```go
type contextKey int // local to the auth module

const (
    contextKeySigners contextKey = iota
)

// withSigners is a private method, as only this module
// can add a signer
func withSigners(ctx weave.Context, signers []weave.Condition) weave.Context {
    return context.WithValue(ctx, contextKeySigners, signers)
}

// Authenticate implements x.Authenticator and provides
// authentication based on public-key signatures.
type Authenticate struct{}

var _ x.Authenticator = Authenticate{}

// GetConditions returns who signed the current Context.
// May be empty
func (a Authenticate) GetConditions(ctx weave.Context) []weave.Condition {
    // (val, ok) form to return nil instead of panic if unset
    val, _ := ctx.Value(contextKeySigners).([]weave.Condition)
    // if we were paranoid about our own code, we would deep-copy
    // the signers here
    return val
}
```

> And finally, when we create a module that needs to read authentication info, we can pass in the handler, so it can use check authentication info from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, when we create a module that needs to read authentication info, we can pass in the handler, so it can use check authentication info from this middleware.
```

> this middleware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This area needs more research and we can either adopt them verbatim or build a similar system. I have heard they are a bit difficult to use, and also don't support some design choices we may want (like using secp256k1 signatures, scrypt for hashing). But the idea to have a general format to combine different conditions in a boolean circuit is powerful. eg. `(signature A and preimage H) OR Threshold(2, [Signature A, Signature B, Signature C])`. We could use this to provide a very simple DSL for defining multi-sig wallets, recovery phrases, etc.

### Conditions

*Authentication* defines who is requesting this transaction and is added to the context as part of the middleware stack. I will refer to the set of Authentications on a transaction as the "requester", which may be made of signatures, preimages, or other objects.

*Authorization* happens in a handler, where it decides if the transaction can execute this transaction. It determines if the transaction fulfills the necessary *conditions* to assume the required *permission* to execute the action.

> *Permission* is the right to perform a specific type of action, like send tokens from an account, or release an escrow. These permissions can be assigned to an individual, but more general to a "Condition"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Permission* is the right to perform a specific type of action, like send tokens from an account, or release an escrow. These permissions can be assigned to an individual, but more generally to a "Condition"
```

*Conditions* define what checks a transaction must fulfill to be able to access a given permission. They must be serializable and can be stored along with an object.

> The simplest example is "who can transfer money out of an account". In many blockchains, they hash the public key and use that to form an "address". Then this address is used as a primary key to an account balance. A user can send tokens to any address, and if I have signed with a public key, which hashes to the "address" of this account, then I can authorize payments out of the account. In this case, the signature is *authentication*, we must have *transfer permission* on this account, and the *condition* is the presence of a signature with a public key that hashes to the account's address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest example is "who can transfer money out of an account." In many blockchains, they hash the public key and use that to form an "address." Then this address is used as a primary key to an account balance. A user can send tokens to any address, and if I have signed with a public key, which hashes to the "address" of this account, then I can authorize payments out of the account. In this case, the signature is *authentication*, we must have *transfer permission* on this account, and the *condition* is the presence of a signature with a public key that hashes to the account's address.
```

We can redefine address to be the hash of a "condition", not just public key bytes, and then we keep this functionality while generalizing what a condition is.

```go
condition := sprintf("%s/%s/%X", extension, type, data)
address := sha256(condition)[:20]
```

The questions is when and how to use each one. Any field that can declare an owner must decide if those bytes represent a condition or an address. The Authenticator can store fulfilled Conditions in the Context, and then allow clients to check for matches either by condition or by address. But where to use which one?

Here are some rough guidelines:

1. If we really need to save 20 bytes, use an *Address*. (But few places need that micro-optimization)
2. If we need visibility of control, use *Condition* (multi-sig solutions, arbiters, etc)
3. If you want to obscure control (until first use), use *Address*

> 4. Everything else, at your discretion, but prefer *Address* when possible for consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Everything else, at your discretion, but prefer *Address* when possible for consistency
```

> I guess it is up to the extension developer, but I would generally use Conditions for anything stored in the value and Address for fields that appear in the key, unless there is a reason otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is a descision for the extension developer, we would generally use Conditions for anything stored in the value and Address for fields that appear in the key, unless there is a reason to do otherwise.
```
